README.md, before:

# New Relic Dropwizard Reporter
A [Dropwizard metrics](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.0.0/) reporter for sending dimensional metrics to New Relic using the New Relic Java Telemetry SDK.
For the juicy details on how Dropwizard metrics are mapped to New Relic dimensional metrics,
please visit [the exporter specs documentation repo](https://github.com/newrelic/exporter-specs/tree/master/dropwizard). 

# How To Use

## gradle

`build.gradle:`
```
compile("com.newrelic.telemetry:dropwizard-metrics-newrelic:0.3.0")
compile("com.newrelic.telemetry:telemetry-http-okhttp:0.3.3")
```

or if you're using kotlin build gradle...

`build.gradle.kts:`
```
implementation("com.newrelic.telemetry:dropwizard-metrics-newrelic:0.3.0")
implementation("com.newrelic.telemetry:telemetry-http-okhttp:0.3.3")
```

If you do not want to depend on okhttp, you can remove the dependency on `telemetry-http-okhttp`, 
but you will need to construct a `MetricBatchSender` instance using its builder and provide your
own implementation of the `com.newrelic.telemetry.http.HttpPoster` interface.


```
MetricBatchSender sender = MetricBatchSender.builder().httpPoster(<your implementation>);
```

Note: to use the sample code below, you will need the `telemetry-http-okhttp` library mentioned above. It provides
implementations communicating via HTTP using the okhttp libraries, respectively.

## Start The Reporter

Early in the lifecycle of your application, you will want to create and
start a `NewRelicReporter`. 

The `YOUR_SECRET_API_KEY` is referring to your New Relic Event API insert key. For more information and how to obtain a key, [visit our docs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/custom-data/send-custom-events-event-api#register).  

```
MetricRegistry metricRegistry = new MetricRegistry(); // If you're already using dropwizard-metrics you may already have one of these.
...
String apiKey = "<YOUR_SECRET_API_KEY>";
MetricBatchSender metricBatchSender = SimpleMetricBatchSender.builder(apiKey).build();

Attributes commonAttributes = new Attributes()
            .put("host", InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName())
            .put("appName", "Your Application Name Here")
            .put("other", "any other common attributes you wish");
            
NewRelicReporter reporter = NewRelicReporter.build(metricRegistry, metricBatchSender)
        .commonAttributes(commonAttributes)
        .build();
        
reporter.start(15, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
```

## Dropwizard Integration

If you are using the actual Dropwizard REST framework, you can get a reference to the 
`MetricRegistry` from the Dropwizard `Environment` in order to register your reporter.  
It might look something like this:


```$java
public class MyApplication extends Application<MyConfig> {

...
    @Override
    public void run(MyConfig configuration, Environment environment) {
        MetricRegistry registry = environment.metrics();
        MetricBatchSender metricBatchSender = buildMetricBatchSender(); // see above for more complete example
        NewRelicReporter reporter = NewRelicReporter.build(registry, metricBatchSender)
                .commonAttributes(commonAttributes)
                .build();
        reporter.start(15, TimeUnit.SECONDS);

        ...
    }
...
}
``` 

### Building
CI builds are run on Azure Pipelines: 
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/NRAzurePipelines/Java%20CI/_apis/build/status/PR%20build%20for%20dropwizard%20metrics?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/NRAzurePipelines/Java%20CI/_build/latest?definitionId=4&branchName=master)
The project uses gradle 5 for building, and the gradle wrapper is provided.

To compile, run the tests and build the jars:

`$ ./gradlew build`

Commit message:

Addition of 'find and use data' from docs team
This PR is to add a ‘how to find data’ section so that customers can find the data they send. I’ve included what I think are the applicable data types (metric data) but let me know if there are other data types reported by this exporter. If you think this exporter will change to send other types of data in future, keep in mind it will be important to update this with a link to that data type.

README.md, after:

# New Relic Dropwizard reporter
A [Dropwizard metrics](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.0.0/) reporter for sending dimensional metrics to New Relic using the New Relic Java Telemetry SDK.
For the juicy details on how Dropwizard metrics are mapped to New Relic dimensional metrics,
please visit [the exporter specs documentation repo](https://github.com/newrelic/exporter-specs/tree/master/dropwizard). 

# How To Use

## gradle

`build.gradle:`
```
compile("com.newrelic.telemetry:dropwizard-metrics-newrelic:0.3.0")
compile("com.newrelic.telemetry:telemetry-http-okhttp:0.3.3")
```

or if you're using kotlin build gradle...

`build.gradle.kts:`
```
implementation("com.newrelic.telemetry:dropwizard-metrics-newrelic:0.3.0")
implementation("com.newrelic.telemetry:telemetry-http-okhttp:0.3.3")
```

If you do not want to depend on okhttp, you can remove the dependency on `telemetry-http-okhttp`, 
but you will need to construct a `MetricBatchSender` instance using its builder and provide your
own implementation of the `com.newrelic.telemetry.http.HttpPoster` interface.


```
MetricBatchSender sender = MetricBatchSender.builder().httpPoster(<your implementation>);
```

Note: to use the sample code below, you will need the `telemetry-http-okhttp` library mentioned above. It provides
implementations communicating via HTTP using the okhttp libraries, respectively.

## Start the reporter

Early in the lifecycle of your application, you will want to create and
start a `NewRelicReporter`. 

The `YOUR_SECRET_API_KEY` is referring to your New Relic Event API insert key. For more information and how to obtain a key, [visit our docs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/insights/insights-data-sources/custom-data/send-custom-events-event-api#register).  

```
MetricRegistry metricRegistry = new MetricRegistry(); // If you're already using dropwizard-metrics you may already have one of these.
...
String apiKey = "<YOUR_SECRET_API_KEY>";
MetricBatchSender metricBatchSender = SimpleMetricBatchSender.builder(apiKey).build();

Attributes commonAttributes = new Attributes()
            .put("host", InetAddress.getLocalHost().getHostName())
            .put("appName", "Your Application Name Here")
            .put("other", "any other common attributes you wish");
            
NewRelicReporter reporter = NewRelicReporter.build(metricRegistry, metricBatchSender)
        .commonAttributes(commonAttributes)
        .build();
        
reporter.start(15, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
```

## Dropwizard integration

If you are using the actual Dropwizard REST framework, you can get a reference to the 
`MetricRegistry` from the Dropwizard `Environment` in order to register your reporter.  
It might look something like this:


```$java
public class MyApplication extends Application<MyConfig> {

...
    @Override
    public void run(MyConfig configuration, Environment environment) {
        MetricRegistry registry = environment.metrics();
        MetricBatchSender metricBatchSender = buildMetricBatchSender(); // see above for more complete example
        NewRelicReporter reporter = NewRelicReporter.build(registry, metricBatchSender)
                .commonAttributes(commonAttributes)
                .build();
        reporter.start(15, TimeUnit.SECONDS);

        ...
    }
...
}
``` 

### Building
CI builds are run on Azure Pipelines: 
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/NRAzurePipelines/Java%20CI/_apis/build/status/PR%20build%20for%20dropwizard%20metrics?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/NRAzurePipelines/Java%20CI/_build/latest?definitionId=4&branchName=master)
The project uses gradle 5 for building, and the gradle wrapper is provided.

To compile, run the tests and build the jars:

`$ ./gradlew build`

### Find and use your data

For tips on how to find and query your data, see [Find metric data](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/data-ingest-apis/get-data-new-relic/metric-api/introduction-metric-api#find-data).

For general querying information, see:
- [Query New Relic data](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data)
- [Intro to NRQL](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/query-data/nrql-new-relic-query-language/getting-started/nrql-syntax-clauses-functions)
